Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets of
instructions for computers to execute

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is one of three core technology packages used in Java programming, along with the JVM
(Java Virtual Machine) and the JRE (Java Runtime Environment).The JVM is the Java platform component that executes
programs.

What is IDE?
An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software suite that consolidates basic tools required to write and test
software.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
The three IDEs most often chosen for server-side Java development are IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, and NetBeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
First, you will start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad, notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc). After
completing editing of the program, we have to save the file. While saving the file you should remember that the file
must be saved with .java extension. For example, let’s think that I had written a Java program which contains a single
class Sample (more on classes in future posts). It is a good convention to save the file with the name of the class. So,
as per my example, the file will be saved as Sample.java.
Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac. The input to the compiler is Java source code which
is available in Sample.java. The output of the compiler is machine independent or platform independent code which is
known as bytecode. The file which is generated after compilation is .class file. As per my example, the bytecode file
will be Sample.class.
Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to
the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.

what is class?
A class, in the context of Java, are templates that are used to create objects, and to define object data types and
methods.

What is object?
A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application. Application entry points
are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating
an object of the class in which the main method is defined. If we omit static keyword before main Java program will
successfully compile but it won't execute.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Major Differences between Path and Classpath is: Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating
system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the
path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A child class can define abstract methods with the same or less restrictive visibility, whereas class implementing
an interface must define all interface methods as public. Abstract Classes can have constructors but not interfaces

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
If we will create an object of the abstract class and calls the method having no body(as the method is pure virtual) it
will give an error. That is why we cant create object of abstract class. Here is a similar StackOverflow question. In
short, it is legal to have a public constructor on an abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
Access specifiers are used to control the visibility of members like classes, variables and methods. There are three
access specifiers: public, private and protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. Abstraction is one
of the key concepts of object-oriented programming (OOP) languages. Its main goal is to handle complexity by hiding
unnecessary details from the user. Encapsulation is one of the fundamental concepts in object-oriented programming
(OOP). It describes the idea of bundling data and methods that work on that data within one unit, Inheritance is one
of the core concepts of object-oriented programming (OOP) languages. It is a mechanism where you can to derive a class
from another class for a hierarchy of classes that share a set of attributes and methods. Polymorphism is one of the
core concepts in OOP languages. It describes the concept that different classes can be used with the same interface.
Each of these classes can provide its own implementation of the interface


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang package is imported by
default, no need to explicitly import it.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API stands for Application Programming Interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
To avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class. But through the interface, multiple
inheritance is possible in java

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument
lists are different. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different
parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is an error event that can happen during the execution of a program and disrupts its normal flow. Java
provides a robust and object oriented way to handle exception scenarios, known as Java Exception Handling.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
















